Welcome back.
Let's now shift our attention to its functional programming.
There are a lot of new concepts related to functional programming which are introduced in Java a lambda
expressions streams and a lot of things like that.
These are really interesting and this makes programming very very interesting.
So what we'll do is in charge of taking an approach of going through this question.
What we do is we go to the editor and try and play around and understand these concepts.
I'm shifting to the workspace and there is a file called lambda expressions.
So if you look at the workspace it's in the test package not in the code it's in the test packet and
it has lambda expressions just so that's the thing that we're looking at right now.
And yet this is the thing which we want to discuss right now.
Let's look at a simple example.
This is basically how we do things usually.
So I have a list of integers and I would want to find the sum of all the odd numbers in the list.
So from this list I want to pick the odd numbers and then some them up.
So if you look at the logic which is right present right now it's very simple logic right.
You can look at it.
So some is 0 and I'm looping through the area using the enhanced for loop or I'm looking at the list
using an enhanced for loop and then we have a condition.
So this checks if it's odd if it's odd then I'm adding it to some and then I'm doing a said equals law
when my son because I have 1 3 and 7 11 1 3 7 11.
So I expect this to be 11.
I'm using the unit test kind of thing in here so yes unit tests are a really good thing if you are a
good programmer you have to be doing unit tests.
So I mean this is a unit test example for just some logic important thing here is the fact that we have
a variable called Sun.
So you have some.
And what would happen is some would have initially a value of zero and at a later point in time some
would have a value.
Simplest one.
So zero plus one will become one.
And then it would three would come in and then it would three would be added four not odd six not odd
two not odd at the end seven will be added.
So at different stages of this program execution this somebody will have different values.
So it would initially have a value of 0 then it will have a value of fun then it will have a value of
pantless 3 4.
And then it would have a value of one plus triple 7 which is 11.
And that's where we would assert it here it so this thing which we're Sam is having is called state
in all the standard programming things that we do whether it's object oriented programming or procedural
programming we depend a lot on the state of the program.
So at a specific instance the state of some is something in the state or some keep changing with time.
And that's where a new programming style came in.
So the new programming style which gaming is functional programming in functional programming you are
wide changes to state so in functional programming one of the things is no changes to state of a program.
So that's the main concept behind functional programming.
So once you assign a specific value to a variable you will not change the value of the variable at any
point in time and it's not an easy style of programming to write code in.
And also it brings in a lot of new concepts.
The reason functional programming becomes very important is because multi-threading.
So if there are no changes to state of a program the most important thing is the fact that then I can
run the code in multiple threads without a problem.
The problem with threads is the fact that you have a state if you have a state like some in here.
Now if I'm writing this in multiple thread it isn't unique.
You'll never run it in multiple threads.
But consider this is really part of a code and you are running it in multiple threads.
In that kind of scenario if multiple threads are running this piece of code because there is a state
called some you might be ending up with a problem.
But if you don't have any state in the program then it gives you a chance to run this program in multiple
threads without a problem at all.
So if you go for multiple functional programming and you write programs which don't have state at all
then you would be able to scale them up will be easy.
So you can't run them in multiple threads easily.
That's the main advantage of going from functional programming style of writing.
So we discussed a lot of theory.
If you're not able to understand a little bit of it that's OK.
That's not a problem at all.
Functional Programming is not a easy thing for a beginner to grasp.
So it's OK if you didn't understand the concepts until you know what we do this we'll try and make it
simple and look at the code that is involved in writing functional programming.
This test also does exactly the same thing.
So in the previous one we are calculating some of our numbers in the usual style and in this test what
we are doing is we are calculating some of our numbers in a functional programming style.
So we have the same list of numbers that were in functional programming.
We use something called stream.
So this is basically a list of numbers right.
Any list of objects is called a stream.
So what I'm doing is I'm creating a stream so numbers don't stream.
So I'm creating a list of these objects that you already have a list of objects from this list.
I'm creating a stream so I'm creating a stream.
And what I'm telling the program is what I'm telling the program right now is to feed.
So basically what I'm saying is from this stream of numbers filtered those which do not match these
criteria.
So if this great was not meant then filter them out.
So what it does is 1 3 and 7 would be the only one which would be left out and then I'm saying reduce
them by using the sum function.
So what it does is it would sum all the remaining things up OK if you're not understanding this program
that's OK.
We'll discuss that we'll discuss each line of code in detail very soon.
But basically there are three steps.
One is create the creation of the stream.
So we are converting the list into a stream the list of objects and then we are filtering those out
which do not match these conditions to filter the things which don't match this condition so I'll be
left off with 1 3 and 7 2 number.
Number 2 not equal to zero.
This specific thing which we are using is called a lambda expression.
We'll talk about it a little later.
But the aim of this piece of code is to filter this list and only remain with the one which satisfies
the condition 1 3 and 7.
Those are the only odd numbers.
And then we use a function called radius and what radius does here is just some all the meaning things
and some will be assigned and some will have a value of 11.
So this is the functional programming style.
So you'd see that we are not using as some variable we are.
I mean we are using the same variable but we are not changing the value of sum at any point in time.
So after the entire calculation is done the calculated values assigned to some basically functional
programming in the style of programming where we use streams and lambda expressions to make sure that
your code does not have any state.
So the great thing about this streams is the fact that it allows you to act on a list of items.
So we are acting on a list or if we are taking a list of items we are filtering the ones which we don't
need and we are summing them up and all this code is done without having any state.
So let's now take a break and when we come back we'll take a look at all the questions which are related
to functional programming.